hey guys my name is Dale you're watching
the factoids this video is dedicated to
Michael Stevens Michael Stevens is the
host of one of the smartest channels on
YouTube Vsauce
that said that's all most people know
him as a smart guy off the Vsauce
without a number on it mostly because
there's not a lot of information out in
the open about him so I took on the
challenge and boy
was it a challenge to organize Michael's
story a story about the life and success
of one of the greatest people on the
internet and that story belongs to
Michael Stevens so let's get started
Michael was born January 23rd to 1986 so
two things happy birthday Michael being
that today is the 23rd and I was
intentional and you're only 28 you're
nothing but a spring chicken
you're definitely wise beyond your years
Michael with that said Michael was born
in Kansas City Missouri and around the
age of five him and his family moved to
Stilwell Kansas Michael only has one
sibling a sister that is two years
younger you may be wondering is she
anything like Michael nope she's
unbelievably unlike Michael
I mean she's participated in a
professional woman's American Football
League as well as being in BMX
tournaments none of you can say you saw
that coming I definitely didn't now his
mother works in the local school system
helping both teachers and students alike
while Michael's father is a chemical
engineer Michael's father as described
by Michael is a polymath which is Greek
for having learned much we're a man who
knows a lot about a lot and he's very
smart much like Michael though Michael
is more modest about it Bena he doesn't
think he's a polymath which I beg to
differ I mean compared to the general
population Michael Ian come on but with
that said all of the interviews show
that the way Michael describes his
father you can kind of mildly see that
in him now jump ahead a few years
Michael went to Blue Valley High School
and according to him he was a bit of a
class clown but he also still really
valued learning I mean going as far as
reading the whole encyclopedia partly
for bragging rights in that kind of way
mia but also because the information is
very useful and did find a use for it he
participated in a program which had him
do informative speech but just kind of
like what he does right now on his
videos but he gave a whole speech on the
whole history of ketchup everything
about it and what do you call it ketchup
on ketchup
but to me that's kinda like
foreshadowing where he would eventually
be he also participate in the drama club
thinking that he says that he went
through puberty very young by the time
they get to high school he looked like
he could fit the parts of the older
people and he kind of got those parts
but through this he was inspired by some
of the great actors that he was around
and encouraged him to better his own
acting he graduated high school in 2004
then to go to the University of Chicago
to double major in neuro psychology and
English language and literature that's a
bit that's a bit much but then I get
were talking about genius Michael here
borderline Renaissance man but it was
College where Michael would get
introduced to video production and
editing he saw a short video that
spoofed the movie The Shining making it
look like a funny movie and he was
completely amazed how editing could
completely change the whole meaning of a
movie in a video form and this
encouraged him to join the video club
that he had at his college and he
learned how to edit there and one of the
first videos he edited was Ferris
Bueller's Day Off taking the Friday the
13th commercial and taking just a sound
and putting Ferris Bueller footage over
it at the right moment making it look
like a horror movie he then went on to
post it on a bunch of sites and it got
really popular on college humor and then
he made another video later on which was
about politics taking footage of George
Bush and Carl Rowe and putting rap music
behind it looking like they were rapping
once again he posted on a bunch of sites
and it got really popular on the website
Funny or Die even get into celebrity
Chris Henchy to comment on it roughly
saying I judge all my friends depending
on how they reacted this video and it
was from there Michael realized that
people really appreciated the content
that he had the ability to make and he
really want to keep pursuing that talent
that he had and who can blame him now
the first YouTube channel of Michael's
that I could find was guess amazing Mike
no Stevens Levin's nope poop licker 888
yep
that's genius why didn't I think of that
first kind of want poop licker 777 now
any posted videos on it all the ways of
2010 oh really propelled them was a
channel called campaign 2008 where he
took the video footage from the
campaign's going on at the time and it
made funny voiceovers and stuff with
them the most viewed video on the
channel has about 7 million views and
it's just called Hillary Clinton farts
and it's pretty funny and through the
videos he's making he eventually caught
the eye of Ben Rahl's
a major contributor to barely political
eventually asking Michael to edit and
produce content for him am I
did some pretty good stuff Neil Michael
graduated he decided that that is
something he loved the law and wanted to
pursue that type of career so they hired
him and in September 2008 he moved to
New York City New York and he end up
working for next new networks and
produced a lot of content for barely
political and barely digital now
throwing all this Michael did make a
little image for himself first major
part that made him iconic in any of the
videos was playing a character called
the bearded nun and once again Michael
that's amazing
they made a spoof on wanna Lady Gaga's
songs and Michael portrayed egg bearded
nun throughout the whole video and it
was so well liked that eventually he
just became a recurring spoof character
that they put in other music videos and
you can still find all these videos I'm
barely political actually you can find
quite a few videos of Michael in them
I'm barely political but with all that
said this eventually leads to the
Michael we know today on this exact
website called fake name generator'
Michael actually came across the name
Vsauce and it is pretty cool sounding he
didn't want to obtain the Vsauce channel
in the first half of 2010 Michael didn't
actually make the original Vsauce
channel being that it was inactive he
eventually obtained it now at the
infancy of Vsauce a lot of people were
contributing to it it was about video
games and cool stuff he could find on
the Internet and what was going on I
mean the first video on the channel was
actually produced by wacky gamer and
Michael did have other people contribute
to the channel for a while until
Michaels own original content became
really the main focal point of the
channel and then it started to revolve
around Michael itself with a few
creative mini series such as loot IMG
and daunt Michael eventually solidified
his placement as being the guy who
represented B songs as time went on
Michael then eventually developed Vsauce
2 in order to play some of the other
content on it to a point where one's
Vsauce 3 and 2 were around
he made his channel solely dedicated to
the miniseries dawn and it was official
on September 9 2012 and since then he's
only produced educational videos that we
see today and some of the many series
that he had can be seen on Vsauce 2 and
3 along with their own original content
hosted by Kevin Lieber and Jacob romper
respectively
now while this was happening Michael
eventually started working for Google in
2011 he was a Content strategist so not
only was he doing Vsauce but he was
doing other stuff for Google and through
his jaw Michael was sent to different
places around the world
and one of his favorite places was
England eventually really growing
attached to the team there
when he found out that there was a
position available for a program
strategists over there he hopped right
on board and he's been a resident of the
great UK since April 2012 and it's
become quite apparent that he loves it
over there according to my notes that's
that that's the prison where at the
present no Michael these are my notes
about your life so long said done I want
to thank you guys for watching
Vsauce has been taking the world by
storm being led by Michael Kevin and
Jake
their hands down my favorite youtubers
and some of my best role models and I
would like to personally thank Michael
for the impact that he's left on my life
and wish him a happy birthday so my
question for you guys is is what is your
favorite Michael Stephens moment will
there be from Vsauce or anytime at all
and all that's said and done my name's
Dale you're watching the factoids and
remember never stop learning thank you
if you like what you saw please stay
tuned for more videos videos on the fact
that almost everybody missed